CHC Application:- 

1. Created baseline project for all modules by Implementing technologies such as Spring Boot, Logger, Swagger, Spring Data Rest, Restful WebService, RabbitMq, MongoDB, Micro Services and guided same to the  team. 
2. Created Database model documents for various modules such as  (a) Admin, (b) Orchestrator, (c) User Management.
3  Developed Orchestrator for CHC application, which contains below services
    a) OrchestratorScheduler,
    b) OrchestratorSchedulerConsumer,
4. Development Analyst and QC Dashboard Service for CHC Application.
5. Provided support while integrating with UI.
 

Lease Extraction Application:- 

1. I have developed Operational Manager Dashboard service (om-dashboard-controller) for below mentioned screens. 
a) Book of Work, b)Completion Status, c) Number of Contracts Processed, d) Turnaround Time, e) Analyst Errors, f) SLA Performance
2. I have implemented the filter such as Time scale (i.e. Today, Weekly and Monthly) and user id (i.e. analyst or qc). 
3. Also developed service to get all QC and Analyst user details. 
4. Provided support while integrating with UI.


Doc Classifier:- 

1. Developed docket queue service which creates the queue in RabbitMQ server and pass the required information with respect to each docket file.         
2. Developed docket queue consumer service that consumes the required information from the queue and call the cognitive services with respect to each docket file   
   and updates the database accordingly based on classification response returned from classifier.  
3. Developed the docket review service for review screen, which updates the docket file based on the classification type.  
4. Enhanced the SFTP service to support folder level, that download and upload docket file from root along with folder under root.
5. Involved in security clearance related changes in all service related to doc-classifier also closed various issue found during this.
6. Provided support while integrating with UI. 
 

Doc Classifier Alight:-

1. Lead the team for development for doc-classification 
2. Distributed task among team to develop service,
3. Given estimation for development for all service with their break up task.
4. Provide guidance to the team on various issue,   
5. Developed below services
    a) DCProcessFTPFiles, 
    b) DCProcessConvertedFiles,
    c) DCProcessHOCRFiles,
6. Created docker files for all service and shared the details required for CI/CD.
7. Done integration testing for all micro service developed for doc-classifier, alog with Cognitive service, App Configuration and Data Ops.