2:00 to 4:00 

Agile:-
	Agile is a software development methodology to build a software incrementally using short iterations of 1 to 4 weeks so that the development process is aligned with the changing business needs. Instead of a single-pass development of 6 to 18 months where all the requirements and risks are predicted upfront, Agile adopts a process of frequent feedback where a workable product is delivered after 1 to 4 week iteration.
	
Roles in Agile:- 

Scrum Master 
	A Scrum Master is a team leader and facilitator who helps the team members to follow agile practices so that they can meet their commitments
	
What is a User Story?
	A user story is a requirement which defines what is required by the user as functionality. A user story can be in two forms -

	As a <User Role> I want <Functionality> so that <Business Value>
	In order to <Business value> as a <User Role> I want <Functionality>

Agile Manifesto:- The values are
	Individuals and interactions over Processes and tools
	Working software over Comprehensive documentation
	Customer collaboration over Contract negotiation
	Responding to change over Following a plan
	
Twelve Principles of Agile Manifesto
	Customer Satisfaction
	Welcome Change
	Deliver a working software	
	Collaboration
	Motivation
	face-to-face corversation
	mesure the progress as per working software
	Maintain constant pace	
	Monitoring
	Simlicity
	Self organized team
	Review the work Regularily
	
Agile Characteristics
	Iterative/Incremental and Ready to Evolve
	Face to Face Communication
	Feedback loop
	
Agile - Daily Stand-up
	What is Daily Stand-up
	Why Stand-up is Important?
	Who Attends a Stand-up?
	Geographically Dispersed Teams

Agile - Definition of Done for below,
	User Story
		A user story is a requirement which is formulated in a few sentences in everyday language of an user and it should be completed within an iteration. 
	Iteration
		An iteration is a time boxed collection of user stories / defects to be worked upon and accepted within the release of a product.
	Release
		A release is a major milestone that represents an internal or external delivery of working, tested version of the product/system. 
	
----
Point
A Point defines how much a team can commit. A point usually refers to 8 hours. Each story is estimated in points.

Capacity
Capacity defines how much an individual can commit. Capacity is estimated in hours.
	
----------------------

Agile - Useful Terms
	Acceptance Criteria
	Backlog Grooming
	
----------------------------
Agile - Product Backlog
		A product backlog is a list of items to be done. Items are ranked with feature descriptions. In an ideal scenario, items should be broken down into user stories.
		
-------------------------
Agile - Iteration Planning

		
	
	
	

	
	
	
	
	


